Scoop Basics Guide
This guide is written by blind electron.
In this document we will go over the following.
How do I install scoop?
How do I add mor buckets to scoop?
How do I install programs using scoop?
How do I search for programs using scoop?
How do I remove programs using scoop?
step1: how do I install scoop?
First, you have to change your exicution policy, so that the remote script to install scoop can be run.
Open up a powershell window and enter the following command
Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -scope CurrentUser
look, I promise you I know you may think this is confusing but its certainly not, its simple more than you think.
basically, this command is for the remote script to help install scoop to run correctly.

Note, changing your remote policy doesn't mean that you will actually be changing how your computer would be remoted or managed, its just changing the remote protocols.
Congradulations! you have successfully changed your exicution policy! Lets install scoop now.
Now, in your powershell window, type the following:
please note: if your running this as an administrator, swhich to non administrative mode before running the command below.
Invoke-Expression (New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://get.scoop.sh')
Again, I know, it does sound confusing, but as I said before, its all simple.
It is basically downloading the scoop install script, and then running it.
congratulations! you have successfully instaled scoop now.
step2: how do I add buckets to scoop?
Interjection: before continuing, please run
scoop install git
to install git so things will not brake.
again, if you get the following:
ERROR Git is required for buckets. Run 'scoop install git' and try again.
it means you do not have git installed.
if you would like to add the extras bucket which is optional, but recommended, Then you must run this command in cmd or power shell.
scoop bucket add extras
You may also add the nonportable bucket which again, is recommended.
It can be done whith the following command
scoop bucket add nonportable
if you want a list of all of the available buckets, you can run the following command.
scoop bucket known
if you would like a list of the buckets you have added, run the following:
scoop bucket list
step 3: how do I install programs with scoop?
To install a program, run the following.
scoop install programme name, where programme name is replaced by the name of the programme you want to install.
step4: how do I remove an installed programme from scoop?
To remove a program, run the following.
scoop uninstall ProgramName, where programme name is replaced by the name of the programme you want to uninstall.
When installing a programme you get a message like "Couldn't find manifest for 'programme name."
this means that either the programme is not available on scoop or any buckets that you have addid, or it is under a diffrant name.
step5: how can I just search for programmes on scoop?
If  the programme your installing may be under a diffrant name then you can search for it with the following command.
scoop search programme name, where programme name is replaced by the name of the programme you want to search for.
conclusions:
this is the guide to using scoop, I hope you learned how to master it! happy installing!
You can visit me on the web at.
https://blind-electron.ml
you can also view my storage which is just a bunch of files I have collected over the years at
https://storage.blind-electron.ml
some credit goes to lightning winter, who helpt with writing most of the document, and also wrote the original guide, which this guide was based off of.
you can go to his websight at
https://lightning-tech.duckdns.org
thank you for attending with me throughout this document.